# Analysis of Broadband Interent Speeds by Country  
By Robyn O'Connor 

## Introduction
`import java.util.*;`
In highschool, I found a love for computer science. Through various computer science courses, I've discovered a great passion for the study of computers, their systems, and their networks. My interest in computer science extends further, however. While I find myself drawn toward the technical end of the subject, I am also intrigued by the role technology and the internet plays in society. An ethical dilemma of significance to me is digital redlining: when internet service providers invest inequal money and resoursces into broadband infastrucure in different places. Broadband, which refers to wide-bandwidth data transmission, is the technology that is used to connect individuals to the internet. Broadband internet is the most common type of internet access.

In this project, I seek to investigate inequalities in broadband internet speeds in different countries. One specific question I sought to answer through my work concerns the relationship between a country's average income and its broadband speed. Do countries with lower average incomes have lower broadband internet speeds, and do countries with higher average incomes have higher broadband internet speeds? Another question I sough to answer involved the populations of countries: do countries with less people have lower broadband internet speeds, and do countries with more people have higher broadband internet speeds?

### Dataset Source 
I used three datasets from 2022 to conduct my analysis of broadband internet speeds by country: one holding internet speeds by country, one holding income by country, and one holding population by country. All datasets are from the World Population Review. Emphasizing their goal "to make this data more accessible through graphs, charts, analysis and visualizations" on their about page, the World Population Review gives the public permission to use the data they provide. 

The principal dataset I used, containing both median broadband internet speed and mobile internet speed by country, was compiled by World Population Review using data complied by Ookla titled "Speedtest Global Index." Ookla generated this data using their Speedtest tool, which can measure the current internet speed in the any location.

### Process
To answer my question of the relationship between a country's average income and its median broadband speed, my plan was to find the average broadband speed of the 20 countries in the internet speed dataset earning the lowest average income to the average broadband speed of the 20 countries in the internet speed dataset earning the highest average income. The first step in the process of answering this question was to acquire the additional data of the average income earned by country. I downloaded a 2022 income data set from World Population review, and parsed it using two helper methods titled find20LowestIncomeCountry and find20HighestIncomeCountry to get two lists of the 20 countries earning the lowest average and the 20 countries earning the highest average income. Before parsing this data, I did have to alter the income datset and the internet dataset so that they matched in terms of the countries they listed, since originally the two sets were not equal in length. The process of parsing this data set included getting a list of all incomes, ordering it from least to greatest, generating a list of the 20 highest or the 20 lowest incomes, and then generating a list of their corresponding countries. After gathering these two lists, I knew which countries I was interested in finding the broadband speeed of in my next method comparing the broadband speed by income, titled compareSpeedByIncome. In this method, I found the broadband speed of each of the 20 countries earning the lowest average income, added them, and then found their overall average broadband speed. This number came out to 160.11 (rounded). I found the broadband speed of each of the 20 countries earning the highest average income, added them, and then found their overall average broadband speed. This number came out to 23.20 (rounded). By way of this process, producing these two average broadband speeds, I found that higher average income-earning countries have higher broadband speeds and lower average income-earning countries have lower broadband speeds. This result confirms my prediction about this relationship. 

In answering my second question of the relationship between a country's population and its median broadband speed, I followed a very similar process. My plan was to find the average broadband speed of the 20 countries in the internet speed dataset with the lowest populations to the average broadband speed of the 20 countries in the internet speed dataset with the highest populations. My first step, again, was to acquire additional information. I downloaded a dataset from World Population review containing the populations of countries in 2022. I then parsed through it using two helper methods titled find20LeastPopulated and find20MostPopulated to get two lists of the 20 countries with the smallest populations and the 20 countries with the greatest populations. Prior to analyzing the population dataset, I had to alter the this datset and the internet dataset so that they matched in terms of the countries they listed, since, again, the two sets were not equal in length originally. Following this, my method of parsing through the population data set looked like this: generating a list of all populations, sorting it in natural order, generating a list of the 20 highest or the 20 population numbers, and then generating a list of their corresponding countries. After creating a list of the 20 high population countries and a list of the 20 low population countries using these methods, I knew which countries I was interested in finding the broadband speeed of in my next method comparing the broadband speed by population titled compareSpeedByPop. Within this method, I found the broadband speed of each of the 20 countries with the highest populations, added them, and then found their overall average broadband speed. This number came out to 85.61.(rounded). I also found the broadband speed of each of the 20 countries earning the lowest populations, added them, and then found their overall average broadband speed. This number came out to 59.27 (rounded). Through this long process, producing these two average broadband speeds, I found that more greatly populated countries have higher broadband speeds and less greatly populated countries have lower broadband speeds. This result confirms my prediction about this relationship.

### Challenges

Had to edit some of the data, removing some countries so that the two lists matched up 

#### Results and Conclusion